STP-3226 (1.0): Procedure to enable audit logging (#1642)
Cray-HPE/docs-csm: operations/security_and_authentication/Audit_Logs.md

# Audit Logs

## Enable or disable audit logging for host and Kubernetes APIs

Audit logs are used to monitor the system and search for suspicious behavior.
Host and Kubernetes API audit logging can be enabled to produce extra audit logs for analysis.
Enabling audit logging is optional. If enabled it generates some load and data on the non-compute nodes \(NCNs\).

> By default, host and Kubernetes API audit logging are not enabled.

Reviewer: Do both of them always need to be enabled or disabled together? Or can you enable one but not the other? This document doesn't really address that.

Author: @bo-quan @dzou-hpe - do either of you know the answer to this question?

Reviewer 2: They don't always need to be enabled or disabled together.

> ## Enable or disable audit logging for host and Kubernetes APIs
> 
> Audit logs are used to monitor the system and search for suspicious behavior.
> Host and Kubernetes API audit logging can be enabled to produce extra audit logs for analysis.
> Enabling audit logging is optional. If enabled it generates some load and data on the non-compute nodes \(NCNs\).
> By default, host and Kubernetes API audit logging are not enabled.
> 
> ### Procedure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Overview

Audit logs are used to monitor the system and search for suspicious behavior.
Host and Kubernetes API audit logging can be enabled to produce extra audit logs for analysis.
Enabling audit logging is optional. If enabled it generates some load and data on the non-compute nodes \(NCNs\).
By default, host and Kubernetes API audit logging are not enabled.

## Enable or disable audit logging for host and Kubernetes APIs
```

The method for updating the audit log settings varies depending on the state of the system.

1. Select one of the following options based on the installation status of the system:

>    * Install

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * During CSM install, from the PIT node
```

     To update the audit log settings during the installation, use one of the following options:

     * **Option 1**

       During the installation, audit logging is enabled or disabled by modifying the CSI settings.
       To enable or disable audit logging, use the following flags with the `csi config init` command. For more information on using flags, see `csi config init -h`:

       `ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled`: Set to `true` to enable host logging or to `false` to disable host logging.

       ```console

>        ncn# csi config init --ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled=true [other config init options]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       pit# csi config init --ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled=true [other config init options]
```

       ```

       `k8s-api-auditing-enabled`: Set to `true` to enable Kubernetes API logging or to `false` to disable Kubernetes API logging.

       ```console

>        ncn# csi config init --k8s-api-auditing-enabled=true [other config init options]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       pit# csi config init --k8s-api-auditing-enabled=true [other config init options]
```

       ```

     * **Option 2**

       Adjust the audit log settings by editing the `system_config.yaml` file.

       View the current settings with the following command:

>        ```bash
>        ncn# cd /var/www/ephemeral/prep
>        ncn# grep audit system_config.yaml
>        ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       ```console
       pit# cd /var/www/ephemeral/prep
       pit# grep audit system_config.yaml
       ```
```

       Example output:

       ```text
       k8s-api-auditing-enabled: false
       ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled: false
       ```

>    * Post-install

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * After CSM install
```

>      If a system is installed, audit logging can be enabled through the `csi` command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     If CSM install is already completed, then audit logging can be enabled through the `csi` command:
```

>      * `ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled`

Reviewer: Are users supposed to perform both this bulleted step and the next one? If these are multiple steps and the user is supposed to do both of them, I recommend changing these to numeric lists, so that is clearer.

       ```bash
       ncn-m# export TOKEN=$(curl -k -s -S -d grant_type=client_credentials \
       -d client_id=admin-client \
       -d client_secret=`kubectl get secrets admin-client-auth -o jsonpath='{.data.client-secret}' | base64 -d` \
       https://api-gw-service-nmn.local/keycloak/realms/shasta/protocol/openid-connect/token | jq -r '.access_token')

>        ncn-m# csi handoff bss-update-param --limit <mgmt-node-xname> --set ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled=true

Reviewer 2: I don't have access to CSM 1.0 system - someone needs to verify that the command option `bss-update-param` works for CSM 1.0

Reviewer 3: This will set k8s-api-auditing-enabled=true on `/proc/cmdline` and in BSS, and for what it's worth the CSI invocation in CSM 1.0 does work with this syntax.

Here's the CSI code handling the `--limit` and `--set` options.

FWIW Drax is 1.0.11 right now.

>        ```bash
>        ncn-m# export TOKEN=$(curl -k -s -S -d grant_type=client_credentials \
>        -d client_id=admin-client \
>        -d client_secret=`kubectl get secrets admin-client-auth -o jsonpath='{.data.client-secret}' | base64 -d` \
>        https://api-gw-service-nmn.local/keycloak/realms/shasta/protocol/openid-connect/token | jq -r '.access_token')
>        ncn-m# csi handoff bss-update-param --limit <mgmt-node-xname> --set ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled=true

Reviewer: ````suggestion
       ```console
       ncn-m001# TOKEN=$(curl -k -s -S -d grant_type=client_credentials -d client_id=admin-client \
                    -d client_secret=`kubectl get secrets admin-client-auth -o jsonpath='{.data.client-secret}' | base64 -d` \
                    https://api-gw-service-nmn.local/keycloak/realms/shasta/protocol/openid-connect/token | jq -r '.access_token') \
                    csi handoff bss-update-param --limit <mgmt-node-xname> --set ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled=true
````

       ```

     * `k8s-api-auditing-enabled`

       ```bash
       ncn-m# export TOKEN=$(curl -k -s -S -d grant_type=client_credentials \
       -d client_id=admin-client \
       -d client_secret=`kubectl get secrets admin-client-auth -o jsonpath='{.data.client-secret}' | base64 -d` \
       https://api-gw-service-nmn.local/keycloak/realms/shasta/protocol/openid-connect/token | jq -r '.access_token')

>        ncn-m# csi handoff bss-update-param --limit <mgmt-node-xname> --set k8s-api-auditing-enabled=true

Reviewer 2: I don't have access to CSM 1.0 system - someone needs to verify that the command option `bss-update-param` works for CSM 1.0

Reviewer 3: This will set k8s-api-auditing-enabled=true on `/proc/cmdline` and in BSS, and for what it's worth the CSI invocation in CSM 1.0 does work with this syntax.

Here's the CSI code handling the `--limit` and `--set` options.

FWIW Drax is 1.0.11 right now.

>        ```bash
>        ncn-m# export TOKEN=$(curl -k -s -S -d grant_type=client_credentials \
>        -d client_id=admin-client \
>        -d client_secret=`kubectl get secrets admin-client-auth -o jsonpath='{.data.client-secret}' | base64 -d` \
>        https://api-gw-service-nmn.local/keycloak/realms/shasta/protocol/openid-connect/token | jq -r '.access_token')
>        ncn-m# csi handoff bss-update-param --limit <mgmt-node-xname> --set k8s-api-auditing-enabled=true

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       ```console
       ncn-m001# TOKEN=$(curl -k -s -S -d grant_type=client_credentials -d client_id=admin-client \
                    -d client_secret=`kubectl get secrets admin-client-auth -o jsonpath='{.data.client-secret}' | base64 -d` \
                    https://api-gw-service-nmn.local/keycloak/realms/shasta/protocol/openid-connect/token | jq -r '.access_token') \
                    csi handoff bss-update-param --limit <mgmt-node-xname> --set k8s-api-auditing-enabled=true
```

       ```

>      **NOTE**: If `csi` command is not installed, locate the `cray-site-init-*` rpm on the NCN master node and install it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     **NOTE**: If `csi` command is not installed, locate the `cray-site-init-*` RPM on the NCN master node and install it:
```

>      **NOTE**: If `csi` command is not installed, locate the `cray-site-init-*` rpm on the NCN master node and install it:

Reviewer: `/mnt/pitdata` is not necessarily going to be present on `ncn-m001` (or any other node).

Reviewer 3: Some of it is uploaded to nexus, but only in CSM 1.3 and up. CSM 1.0 and 1.2 backup to ncn-m002 and ncn-m003, but these are lost after an upgrade or rebuild.

Reviewer 3: Perhaps this should make use of the `cray` command for updating BSS parameters.

```bash
PARAMS=$(cray bss bootparameters list --hosts "${XNAME}" --format json | jq '.[] |."params"' | tr -d \")
PARMS="$PARAMS k8s-api-auditing-enabled=true"
cray bss bootparameters update --hosts "${XNAME}" --params "${PARAMS}"
```

>      **NOTE**: If `csi` command is not installed, locate the `cray-site-init-*` rpm on the NCN master node and install it:

Reviewer: Probably this should be added before this step. An optional step like "Install CSI on ncn-m001, if it is not already installed". People may see the CSI command to run and get stuck, not realizing the instructions they need are later on.

>      ```bash
>      ncn-m# cd /mnt/pitdata
>      ncn-m# find . -name cray-site-init*
>      ncn-m# rpm -Uvh --force <rpm file path>
>      ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
     ```console
     ncn-m001# find /mnt/pitdata -name cray-site-init*
     ncn-m001# rpm -Uvh --force <rpm file path>
     ```
````

> 2. Verify if audit logging is enabled (changes made post-install won't be reflected until after the NCN is rebooted)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Verify that audit logging is enabled (changes made post-install will not be reflected until after the NCN is rebooted).
```

   * `ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled`
  

>      ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     ```console
```

     ncn# craysys metadata get ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled
     ```

   * `k8s-api-auditing-enabled`

>      ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     ```console
```

     ncn# craysys metadata get k8s-api-auditing-enabled
     ```

> 3. Restart each NCN to apply the new settings after the CSI setting is changed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Restart each NCN to apply the new settings after the CSI setting is changed.
```

> 3. Restart each NCN to apply the new settings after the CSI setting is changed.

Reviewer: If this is being done during an install and ncn-m001 is still the PIT node, will this automatically get picked up when it is redeployed as ncn-m001?

Author: @bo-quan @bklei can either of you answer Mitch's question above?

Reviewer 4: i thought if you are fresh install, because we did something in csi, all nodes will have this enabled? i think reboot is only needed for a system that was installed without audit enabled?

Author: @dzou-hpe would it be sufficient to state this at the beginning of the step then?

> Skip this step if the system was installed with audit logging enabled.

Reviewer 5: @nrockershousen I agree with @dzou-hpe -- if this is a fresh install case, setting this should cause the NCNs to come up initially with auditing enabled, so the restart would only be needed if applying after the fact.

Author: Thanks! Fixed.

Reviewer: Well, wait, is that accurate? If someone follows this procedure on the PIT node during an install, it's possible they'll be doing it after all of the NCNs have already been booted (just not before the PIT node has been redeployed). I don't see any indication earlier on this page saying that if this is done during a CSM install, it needs to be done before the NCNs are first deployed. So if this procedure IS done after the NCNs are deployed but before the PIT node is redeployed, then wouldn't the nodes still need to be rebooted?

I think it probably is more accurate to just explain that these changes take effect on an NCN at boot time, so any NCNs which are currently booted (other than the PIT node) will not have logging enabled until the next time they are booted. That covers the case where the NCNs aren't booted yet and the case where they are, I think. Does that make sense?

Reviewer: Actually, I now see that in the CSM install case, we're making the changes either to the "csi config init" arguments or to the files that "csi config init" generates. So I'm assuming that those steps are intended to be done at that point in the install -- when csi config init is being run. So the real issue is probably that we need to be more explicit up above about when they have to do this during a CSM install. I'll mark this thread as resolved and add a new comment to that part of the document.

# Audit Logs

## Overview

Audit logs are used to monitor the system and search for suspicious behavior.
Host and Kubernetes API audit logging can be enabled to produce extra audit logs for analysis.
Enabling audit logging is optional. If enabled it generates some load and data on the non-compute nodes \(NCNs\).

By default, host and Kubernetes API audit logging are not enabled.
It is not required for both to be enabled or disabled at the same time.

## Enable or disable audit logging for host and Kubernetes APIs

The method for updating the audit log settings varies depending on the state of the system.

1. Select one of the following options based on the installation status of the system:

   For each of the following options, only enable the desired level of audit logging.
   It is not required to enable both.

   * During CSM install, from the PIT node

     To update the audit log settings during the installation, use one of the following options:

     * **Option 1**

>        During the installation, audit logging is enabled or disabled by modifying the CSI settings.

Reviewer: This option needs to clarify that this needs to happen at the same time that "csi config init" is normally run during the install. I think that is obvious to someone who knows how the installs work pretty well, but I don't think everyone would realize that they couldn't do this step later on in the install.

And really, we should probably add a link from that part of the install procedure over to here, otherwise nobody is going to find it in that situation.
https://github.com/Cray-HPE/docs-csm/blob/release/1.0/install/prepare_configuration_payload.md

And these CSI options should be added to this table:
https://github.com/Cray-HPE/docs-csm/blob/release/1.0/install/prepare_configuration_payload.md#command-line-configuration-payload

Reviewer 3: These two amendments are specific to 1.0 and 1.2.
For 1.3 and 1.4 that doesn't exist, but this should be mentioned during https://github.com/Cray-HPE/docs-csm/blob/main/install/pre-installation.md#33-customize-system_configyaml for example it could be added to one of the existing notes "Enable/disable audit logging, refer to here for background info"

Reviewer: I'm confused. Those CSI arguments exist in 1.0 and 1.2 but not later? Or those CSI arguments exist in 1.3 and 1.4, but not earlier?

Right now it looks like all versions of this PR mention them, unless I am missing something.

Author: I believe he meant that the prepare_configuration_payload.md file only exists in 1.0 and 1.2, and that the references in the install doc will need to be in a different location for 1.3 and 1.4.

Reviewer 3: Correct, it only exists in 1.0 and 1.2. In 1.3 and 1.4 the page was refactored and consolidated into this step: https://github.com/Cray-HPE/docs-csm/blob/release/1.3/install/pre-installation.md#3-create-system-configuration

       To enable or disable audit logging, use the following flags with the `csi config init` command. For more information on using flags, see `csi config init -h`.

       `ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled`: Set to `true` to enable host logging or to `false` to disable host logging.

       ```console
       pit# csi config init --ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled=true [other config init options]
       ```

       `k8s-api-auditing-enabled`: Set to `true` to enable Kubernetes API logging or to `false` to disable Kubernetes API logging.

       ```console
       pit# csi config init --k8s-api-auditing-enabled=true [other config init options]

>        ```

Reviewer: Also, did the CSI that we included in the csm-1.0 install media actually include these options?

     * **Option 2**

       Adjust the audit log settings by editing the `system_config.yaml` file.

       View the current settings with the following command:

       ```console
       pit# cd /var/www/ephemeral/prep
       pit# grep audit system_config.yaml
       ```

       Example output:

       ```text
       k8s-api-auditing-enabled: false
       ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled: false
       ```

   * After CSM install

     If CSM install is already completed, then audit logging can be enabled through the following `csi` command.

>      `ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled`:
> 
>      ```console
>      ncn-m001# TOKEN=$(curl -k -s -S -d grant_type=client_credentials -d client_id=admin-client \
>                   -d client_secret=`kubectl get secrets admin-client-auth -o jsonpath='{.data.client-secret}' | base64 -d` \
>                   https://api-gw-service-nmn.local/keycloak/realms/shasta/protocol/openid-connect/token | jq -r '.access_token') \
>                   csi handoff bss-update-param --limit <mgmt-node-xname> --set ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled=true
>      ```
> 
>      `k8s-api-auditing-enabled`:
> 
>      ```console
>      ncn-m001# TOKEN=$(curl -k -s -S -d grant_type=client_credentials -d client_id=admin-client \
>                   -d client_secret=`kubectl get secrets admin-client-auth -o jsonpath='{.data.client-secret}' | base64 -d` \
>                   https://api-gw-service-nmn.local/keycloak/realms/shasta/protocol/openid-connect/token | jq -r '.access_token') \
>                   csi handoff bss-update-param --limit <mgmt-node-xname> --set k8s-api-auditing-enabled=true
>      ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
     * `ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled`

        ```console
        ncn-m001# TOKEN=$(curl -k -s -S -d grant_type=client_credentials -d client_id=admin-client \
                     -d client_secret=`kubectl get secrets admin-client-auth -o jsonpath='{.data.client-secret}' | base64 -d` \
                     https://api-gw-service-nmn.local/keycloak/realms/shasta/protocol/openid-connect/token | jq -r '.access_token') \
                     csi handoff bss-update-param --limit <mgmt-node-xname> --set ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled=true
        ```

     * `k8s-api-auditing-enabled`

        ```console
        ncn-m001# TOKEN=$(curl -k -s -S -d grant_type=client_credentials -d client_id=admin-client \
                     -d client_secret=`kubectl get secrets admin-client-auth -o jsonpath='{.data.client-secret}' | base64 -d` \
                     https://api-gw-service-nmn.local/keycloak/realms/shasta/protocol/openid-connect/token | jq -r '.access_token') \
                     csi handoff bss-update-param --limit <mgmt-node-xname> --set k8s-api-auditing-enabled=true
        ```
````

>      **NOTE**: If `csi` command is not installed, locate the `cray-site-init-*` RPM on `ncn-m001` and install it:

Reviewer: `/mnt/pitdata` is not necessarily going to be available or accessible on `ncn-m001`. That needs to be addressed here, if only to cop out and say that if that's the case, contact support -- although there may be other ways to get that RPM. It's possible it is uploaded into Nexus (@rustydb @heemstra do you know?). But since there is no guarantee that the RPM can be obtained using these steps, we need to at least say something about that.

Reviewer 3: same answer https://github.com/Cray-HPE/docs-csm/pull/1642#discussion_r1015599581

>      **NOTE**: If `csi` command is not installed, locate the `cray-site-init-*` RPM on `ncn-m001` and install it:

Reviewer: Would it make more sense to move this to the top of this step as an optionl substep? Rather than have them try to run the commands and get errors because csi is not there, and then see this note after?

     ```console
     ncn-m001# find /mnt/pitdata -name cray-site-init*
     ncn-m001# rpm -Uvh --force <rpm file path>
     ```

> 2. Verify that audit logging is enabled (changes made post-install will not be reflected until after the NCN is rebooted).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Verify that audit logging is enabled (changes made post-install will not be reflected until after the NCN is rebooted).
```

   `ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled`:
  
   ```console
   ncn# craysys metadata get ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled
   ```

   `k8s-api-auditing-enabled`:

   ```console
   ncn# craysys metadata get k8s-api-auditing-enabled
   ```

> 3. Restart each NCN to apply the new settings after the CSI setting is changed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Restart each NCN to apply the new settings after the CSI setting is changed.
```

          * `ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled`

            ```console
            ncn-m001# TOKEN=$(curl -k -s -S -d grant_type=client_credentials -d client_id=admin-client \
                           -d client_secret=`kubectl get secrets admin-client-auth -o jsonpath='{.data.client-secret}' | base64 -d` \
                           https://api-gw-service-nmn.local/keycloak/realms/shasta/protocol/openid-connect/token | jq -r '.access_token') \
                           csi handoff bss-update-param --limit <mgmt-node-xname> --set ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled=true
            ```

          * `k8s-api-auditing-enabled`

            ```console
            ncn-m001# TOKEN=$(curl -k -s -S -d grant_type=client_credentials -d client_id=admin-client \
                           -d client_secret=`kubectl get secrets admin-client-auth -o jsonpath='{.data.client-secret}' | base64 -d` \
                           https://api-gw-service-nmn.local/keycloak/realms/shasta/protocol/openid-connect/token | jq -r '.access_token') \
                           csi handoff bss-update-param --limit <mgmt-node-xname> --set k8s-api-auditing-enabled=true
            ```

        * **Option 2**

>           Enable audit logging with Boot Script Service (BSS) parameters.

Author: @rustydb I added in the BSS option here. Does this look okay?

          * `ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled`

            ```console

>             ncn-m001# PARAMS=$(cray bss bootparameters list --hosts "${XNAME}" --format json | jq '.[] |."params"' | tr -d \")

Reviewer 3: Where is `XNAME` set?

Author: fixed

The Kubernetes API audit logs are stored in the `/var/log/audit/kl8s/apiserver` directory on each master NCN.
Kubernetes API audit logging uses a maximum of 1GB on each master NCN when using log rotation settings.

## Enable or disable audit logging for host and Kubernetes APIs

The method for updating the audit log settings varies depending on the state of the system.

1. Enable audit logging.

   1. (Optional) If the `csi` command is not installed, locate the `cray-site-init-*` RPM on `ncn-m001` and install it:

      ```console
      ncn-m001# find /mnt/pitdata -name cray-site-init*
      ncn-m001# rpm -Uvh --force <rpm file path>
      ```

   1. Select one of the following options to enable audit logging based on the installation status of the system:

      For each of the following options, only enable the desired level of audit logging.
      It is not required to enable both.

      * During CSM install, from the PIT node

        **NOTE:** This step needs to happen at the same time that `csi config init` is normally run during the install.

        To update the audit log settings during the installation, use one of the following options:

        * **Option 1**

>           During the installation, audit logging is enabled or disabled by modifying the CSI settings.
>           To enable or disable audit logging, use the following flags with the `csi config init` command. For more information on using flags, see `csi config init -h`.
> 
>           * `ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled`
> 
>             Set to `true` to enable host logging or to `false` to disable host logging.
> 
>             ```console
>             pit# csi config init --ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled=true [other config init options]
>             ```
> 
>           * `k8s-api-auditing-enabled`
> 
>             Set to `true` to enable Kubernetes API logging or to `false` to disable Kubernetes API logging.
> 
>             ```console
>             pit# csi config init --k8s-api-auditing-enabled=true [other config init options]
>             ```
> 
>         * **Option 2**
> 
>           Adjust the audit log settings by editing the `system_config.yaml` file.
> 
>           View the current settings with the following command:
> 
>           ```console
>           pit# cd /var/www/ephemeral/prep
>           pit# grep audit system_config.yaml
>           ```
> 
>           Example output:
> 
>           ```text
>           k8s-api-auditing-enabled: false
>           ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled: false
>           ```
> 
>       * After CSM install
> 
>         * **Option 1**
> 
>           Enable audit logging through the following `csi` command.
> 
>           * `ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled`
> 
>             ```console
>             ncn-m001# TOKEN=$(curl -k -s -S -d grant_type=client_credentials -d client_id=admin-client \
>                            -d client_secret=`kubectl get secrets admin-client-auth -o jsonpath='{.data.client-secret}' | base64 -d` \
>                            https://api-gw-service-nmn.local/keycloak/realms/shasta/protocol/openid-connect/token | jq -r '.access_token') \
>                            csi handoff bss-update-param --limit <mgmt-node-xname> --set ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled=true
>             ```
> 
>           * `k8s-api-auditing-enabled`
> 
>             ```console
>             ncn-m001# TOKEN=$(curl -k -s -S -d grant_type=client_credentials -d client_id=admin-client \
>                            -d client_secret=`kubectl get secrets admin-client-auth -o jsonpath='{.data.client-secret}' | base64 -d` \
>                            https://api-gw-service-nmn.local/keycloak/realms/shasta/protocol/openid-connect/token | jq -r '.access_token') \
>                            csi handoff bss-update-param --limit <mgmt-node-xname> --set k8s-api-auditing-enabled=true
>             ```

Reviewer: In the case of the PIT node scenario, csi will definitely be there. And now that we are providing non-CSI options for post-install, I think the install CSI step should be moved. Something like this:

````suggestion
   1. Select one of the following options to enable audit logging based on the installation status of the system:

      For each of the following options, only enable the desired level of audit logging.
      It is not required to enable both.

      * During CSM install, from the PIT node

        **NOTE:** This step needs to happen at the same time that `csi config init` is normally run during the install.

        To update the audit log settings during the installation, use one of the following options:

        * **Option 1**

          During the installation, audit logging is enabled or disabled by modifying the CSI settings.
          To enable or disable audit logging, use the following flags with the `csi config init` command. For more information on using flags, see `csi config init -h`.

          * `ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled`

            Set to `true` to enable host logging or to `false` to disable host logging.

            ```console
            pit# csi config init --ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled=true [other config init options]
            ```

          * `k8s-api-auditing-enabled`

            Set to `true` to enable Kubernetes API logging or to `false` to disable Kubernetes API logging.

            ```console
            pit# csi config init --k8s-api-auditing-enabled=true [other config init options]
            ```

        * **Option 2**

          Adjust the audit log settings by editing the `system_config.yaml` file.

          View the current settings with the following command:

          ```console
          pit# cd /var/www/ephemeral/prep
          pit# grep audit system_config.yaml
          ```

          Example output:

          ```text
          k8s-api-auditing-enabled: false
          ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled: false
          ```

      * After CSM install

        * **Option 1**

          Enable audit logging using the `csi` tool.

          1. (Optional) If the `csi` command is not installed, locate the `cray-site-init` RPM on `ncn-m001` and install it.

             ```console
             ncn-m001# find /mnt/pitdata -name cray-site-init*
             ncn-m001# rpm -Uvh --force <rpm file path>
             ```

          1. Enable audit logging.

             * `ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled`

               ```console
               ncn-m001# TOKEN=$(curl -k -s -S -d grant_type=client_credentials -d client_id=admin-client \
                                   -d client_secret=`kubectl get secrets admin-client-auth -o jsonpath='{.data.client-secret}' | base64 -d` \
                                   https://api-gw-service-nmn.local/keycloak/realms/shasta/protocol/openid-connect/token | jq -r '.access_token') \
                                   csi handoff bss-update-param --limit <mgmt-node-xname> --set ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled=true
               ```

             * `k8s-api-auditing-enabled`

               ```console
               ncn-m001# TOKEN=$(curl -k -s -S -d grant_type=client_credentials -d client_id=admin-client \
                                   -d client_secret=`kubectl get secrets admin-client-auth -o jsonpath='{.data.client-secret}' | base64 -d` \
                                   https://api-gw-service-nmn.local/keycloak/realms/shasta/protocol/openid-connect/token | jq -r '.access_token') \
                                   csi handoff bss-update-param --limit <mgmt-node-xname> --set k8s-api-auditing-enabled=true
               ```
````

          * `ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled`

            ```console
            ncn-m001# XNAME=<node_xname>
            ncn-m001# PARAMS=$(cray bss bootparameters list --hosts "${XNAME}" --format json | jq '.[] |."params"' | tr -d \")
            ncn-m001# PARAMS="$PARAMS ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled=true"
            ncn-m001# cray bss bootparameters update --hosts "${XNAME}" --params "${PARAMS}"
            ```

          * `k8s-api-auditing-enabled`

            ```console
            ncn-m001# XNAME=<node_xname>
            ncn-m001# PARAMS=$(cray bss bootparameters list --hosts "${XNAME}" --format json | jq '.[] |."params"' | tr -d \")
            ncn-m001# PARAMS="$PARAMS k8s-api-auditing-enabled=true"
            ncn-m001# cray bss bootparameters update --hosts "${XNAME}" --params "${PARAMS}"
            ```
 
2. Verify that audit logging is enabled (changes made post-install will not be reflected until after the NCN is rebooted).

   `ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled`:
 
   ```console
   ncn# craysys metadata get ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled
   ```

   `k8s-api-auditing-enabled`:

   ```console
   ncn# craysys metadata get k8s-api-auditing-enabled
   ```

> 3. Restart each NCN to apply the new settings after the CSI setting is changed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Restart each NCN to apply the new settings after the CSI setting is changed.
```

                                   csi handoff bss-update-param --limit <mgmt-node-xname> --set k8s-api-auditing-enabled=true
               ```

        * **Option 2**

          Enable audit logging with Boot Script Service (BSS) parameters.

          * `ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled`

            ```console
            ncn-m001# XNAME=<node_xname>
            ncn-m001# PARAMS=$(cray bss bootparameters list --hosts "${XNAME}" --format json | jq '.[] |."params"' | tr -d \")
            ncn-m001# PARAMS="$PARAMS ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled=true"
            ncn-m001# cray bss bootparameters update --hosts "${XNAME}" --params "${PARAMS}"
            ```

          * `k8s-api-auditing-enabled`

            ```console
            ncn-m001# XNAME=<node_xname>
            ncn-m001# PARAMS=$(cray bss bootparameters list --hosts "${XNAME}" --format json | jq '.[] |."params"' | tr -d \")
            ncn-m001# PARAMS="$PARAMS k8s-api-auditing-enabled=true"
            ncn-m001# cray bss bootparameters update --hosts "${XNAME}" --params "${PARAMS}"
            ```

>  
> 1. Verify that audit logging is enabled (changes made post-install will not be reflected until after the NCN is rebooted).
> 
>    `ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled`:
>  

Reviewer: ```suggestion

1. Verify that audit logging is enabled (changes made post-install will not be reflected until after the NCN is rebooted).

   `ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled`:

```

               ncn-m001# TOKEN=$(curl -k -s -S -d grant_type=client_credentials -d client_id=admin-client \
                                   -d client_secret=`kubectl get secrets admin-client-auth -o jsonpath='{.data.client-secret}' | base64 -d` \
                                   https://api-gw-service-nmn.local/keycloak/realms/shasta/protocol/openid-connect/token | jq -r '.access_token') \
                                   csi handoff bss-update-param --limit <mgmt-node-xname> --set ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled=true
               ```

             * `k8s-api-auditing-enabled`

               ```console
               ncn-m001# TOKEN=$(curl -k -s -S -d grant_type=client_credentials -d client_id=admin-client \
                                   -d client_secret=`kubectl get secrets admin-client-auth -o jsonpath='{.data.client-secret}' | base64 -d` \
                                   https://api-gw-service-nmn.local/keycloak/realms/shasta/protocol/openid-connect/token | jq -r '.access_token') \
                                   csi handoff bss-update-param --limit <mgmt-node-xname> --set k8s-api-auditing-enabled=true
               ```

        * **Option 2**

>           Enable audit logging with Boot Script Service (BSS) parameters.
> 
>           * `ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled`
> 
>             ```console
>             ncn-mw# XNAME=<node_xname>
>             ncn-mw# PARAMS=$(cray bss bootparameters list --hosts "${XNAME}" --format json | jq '.[] |."params"' | tr -d \")
>             ncn-mw# PARAMS="$PARAMS ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled=true"
>             ncn-mw# cray bss bootparameters update --hosts "${XNAME}" --params "${PARAMS}"
>             ```
> 
>           * `k8s-api-auditing-enabled`
> 
>             ```console
>             ncn-mw# XNAME=<node_xname>
>             ncn-mw# PARAMS=$(cray bss bootparameters list --hosts "${XNAME}" --format json | jq '.[] |."params"' | tr -d \")
>             ncn-mw# PARAMS="$PARAMS k8s-api-auditing-enabled=true"
>             ncn-mw# cray bss bootparameters update --hosts "${XNAME}" --params "${PARAMS}"
>             ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          Enable audit logging with Boot Script Service (BSS) parameters.

          1. Configure the Cray CLI, if it is not already.

             See [Configure the Cray CLI](../configure_cray_cli.md).

          1. Enable audit logging.

             * `ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled`

               ```console
               ncn-mw# XNAME=<node_xname>
               ncn-mw# PARAMS=$(cray bss bootparameters list --hosts "${XNAME}" --format json | jq '.[] |."params"' | tr -d \")
               ncn-mw# PARAMS="$PARAMS ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled=true"
               ncn-mw# cray bss bootparameters update --hosts "${XNAME}" --params "${PARAMS}"
               ```

             * `k8s-api-auditing-enabled`

               ```console
               ncn-mw# XNAME=<node_xname>
               ncn-mw# PARAMS=$(cray bss bootparameters list --hosts "${XNAME}" --format json | jq '.[] |."params"' | tr -d \")
               ncn-mw# PARAMS="$PARAMS k8s-api-auditing-enabled=true"
               ncn-mw# cray bss bootparameters update --hosts "${XNAME}" --params "${PARAMS}"
               ```
```

>             ncn-m001# XNAME=<node_xname>
>             ncn-m001# PARAMS=$(cray bss bootparameters list --hosts "${XNAME}" --format json | jq '.[] |."params"' | tr -d \")
>             ncn-m001# PARAMS="$PARAMS ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled=true"
>             ncn-m001# cray bss bootparameters update --hosts "${XNAME}" --params "${PARAMS}"
>             ```
> 
>           * `k8s-api-auditing-enabled`
> 
>             ```console
>             ncn-m001# XNAME=<node_xname>
>             ncn-m001# PARAMS=$(cray bss bootparameters list --hosts "${XNAME}" --format json | jq '.[] |."params"' | tr -d \")
>             ncn-m001# PARAMS="$PARAMS k8s-api-auditing-enabled=true"
>             ncn-m001# cray bss bootparameters update --hosts "${XNAME}" --params "${PARAMS}"
>             ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            ncn-mw# XNAME=<node_xname>
            ncn-mw# PARAMS=$(cray bss bootparameters list --hosts "${XNAME}" --format json | jq '.[] |."params"' | tr -d \")
            ncn-mw# PARAMS="$PARAMS ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled=true"
            ncn-mw# cray bss bootparameters update --hosts "${XNAME}" --params "${PARAMS}"
            ```

          * `k8s-api-auditing-enabled`

            ```console
            ncn-mw# XNAME=<node_xname>
            ncn-mw# PARAMS=$(cray bss bootparameters list --hosts "${XNAME}" --format json | jq '.[] |."params"' | tr -d \")
            ncn-mw# PARAMS="$PARAMS k8s-api-auditing-enabled=true"
            ncn-mw# cray bss bootparameters update --hosts "${XNAME}" --params "${PARAMS}"
            ```
```

1. Verify that audit logging is enabled.

   > Changes made post-install will not be reflected until after the NCN is rebooted.

>    `ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled`:
> 
>    ```console
>    ncn# craysys metadata get ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled
>    ```
> 
>    `k8s-api-auditing-enabled`:
> 
>    ```console
>    ncn# craysys metadata get k8s-api-auditing-enabled
>    ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * `ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled`:

      ```console
      ncn# craysys metadata get ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled
      ```

   * `k8s-api-auditing-enabled`:

      ```console
      ncn# craysys metadata get k8s-api-auditing-enabled
      ```
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

# Audit Logs

> How to enable/disable audit logging for host and Kubernetes APIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How to enable and disable audit logging for host and Kubernetes APIs.
```

Audit logs are used to monitor the system and search for suspicious behavior.
Host and Kubernetes API audit logging can be enabled to produce extra audit logs for analysis.
Enabling audit logging is optional and will generate some load and data on the non-compute nodes \(NCNs\).
Host and Kubernetes API audit logging is not enabled by default.

> To enable or disable host and Kubernetes API audit logging, change the CSI setting:

Reviewer: Example commands should be given for these. And if by CSI this means the `csi` binary used during installs, then instructions should also be provided for how users can access that post-install (since it is not included on the NCNs themselves).

Reviewer 2: Amended with example commands and instructions to install csi.

       ```console
       ncn# csi config init --k8s-api-auditing-enabled=true [other config init options]
       ```

     * **Option 2**

       Adjust the audit log settings by editing the `system_config.yaml` file.

       View the current settings with the following command:

       ```bash
       ncn# cd /var/www/ephemeral/prep
       ncn# grep audit system_config.yaml
       ```

       Example output:

       ```text
       k8s-api-auditing-enabled: false
       ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled: false
       ```

   * Post-install

     If a system is installed, audit logging can be enabled through the Boot Script Service (BSS).

     * `ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled`
     * `k8s-api-auditing-enabled`

2. Verify if audit logging is enabled.

   * `ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled`
  
     ```bash
     ncn# cray bss bootparameters list --format json --hosts Global | jq '.[]."cloud-init"."meta-data"."k8s-api-auditing-enabled"'
     ```

   * `k8s-api-auditing-enabled`

     ```bash
     ncn# cray bss bootparameters list --format json --hosts Global | jq '.[]."cloud-init"."meta-data" "ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled"'
     ```

> 3. Restart each NCN to apply the new settings after the CSI setting is changed.

Reviewer 6: @nrockershousen I question that simply a node reboot picks these changes up, from BSS. I believe it would require a node rebuild, or perhaps a specific incantation of cloud-init to force a re-run. + @bklei

Author: @bklei any thoughts on the above comment?

Reviewer 5: indeed -- restarting a node that's already been initialized, the configure auditing script does run, so reboot would pickup bss change: https://github.com/Cray-HPE/node-images/blob/lts/csm-1.3/boxes/ncn-node-images/kubernetes/files/scripts/common/kubernetes-cloudinit.sh#L50

     * `ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled`
     * `k8s-api-auditing-enabled`

2. Verify if audit logging is enabled.

   * `ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled`
  
     ```bash
     ncn# cray bss bootparameters list --format json --hosts Global | jq '.[]."cloud-init"."meta-data"."k8s-api-auditing-enabled"'
     ```

   * `k8s-api-auditing-enabled`

     ```bash
     ncn# cray bss bootparameters list --format json --hosts Global | jq '.[]."cloud-init"."meta-data" "ncn-mgmt-node-auditing-enabled"'
     ```

3. Restart each NCN to apply the new settings after the CSI setting is changed.

   Follow the [Reboot NCNs](../node_management/Reboot_NCNs.md) procedure.

Host audit logs are stored in the `/var/log/audit/HostOS` directory on each NCN.
Host audit logging uses a maximum of 60GB on each NCN when using log rotation settings.
The log rotation settings are enabled after editing the CSI settings and rebooting the NCNs.

The Kubernetes API audit logs are stored in the `/var/log/audit/kl8s/apiserver` directory on each master NCN.
Kubernetes API audit logging uses a maximum of 1GB on each master NCN when using log rotation settings.

> 

Reviewer 7: Delete this space in the end.
